##Stealth payments
Stealth payment is a private exchange of funds which protects the privacy of the recipient and prevents observers from knowing the user's transaction history.


On each payment the sender generates a new address using the recipient's stealth address data. 
Only the recipient is able to spend those funds. The spending private key can be generated only by the receiver.

The stealth address generated from the published public key is entirely indistinguishable from random to any parties not directly involved in the transaction (ie everyone but the sender and recipient).

#### Dual-key stealth

Dual key allows scanning for payments without exposing the spending private key. In this scheme two keys are used - one for spending and one for scanning. The spending key is decrypted only when spending funds and it requires user interaction. The scan key is not encrypted.

Receiver:

A = public scan key (EC point, 33 bytes/256 bits, long lasting, generated by recipient)
a = private scan key (integer, 32 bytes/256 bits, long lasting, generated by recipient)
B = public 'spend key' (EC point, ephemeral, generated by sender)
b = private 'spend key' (integer, ephemeral, generated by sender)

A = aG
B = bG

stealth address: <scan=A> <spend=B, ...>

By publishing B, and using a publicly known hash function H, the sender and recipient can construct a shared secret, s:
s = H(aB) = H(bA) ( = H(abG) = H(baG) )

Sender can calculate the public key corresponding to their new stealth address, and so calculate the address where they will receive their funds:
K(A') = K(A + sG)
Here, K(x) is the 160 most significant bits of the Keccak-256 hash of x.

The receiver can do the same, as the long term public key A is public knowledge:

K(A') = K(A + sG) [without decrypting wallet]
=> A' = A + sG
=> a'G = aG + sG   
=> a' = (a + s)G [after decryption of wallet]

It can be proven that only the holder of the original private key, a, can form a' and spend the money held at the new account with address K(A'). An adversary would be required to find the preimage or a hash collision, and break the ECDLP. These are both assumed very, very hard.


##Credits

The concept was invented by Peter Todd based on ByteCoin's earlier work.

